we are
live
um I am back there's a ludicrous amount
of stuff stacked up to
fix I'm going to figure out what the
heck needs fixing and just start going
through a bunch of stuff
weird yeah so there needs to be some
change
there um
okay got that I believe we have some
support stuff on e3b to deal with
next yeah okay so there's something
weird with e3b let me figure this out
I guess the first thing to do is just
going to be
increases so we'll see if this uh
continues to increase or
leak let me go see what uh what version
they currently have that I
pr yeah this is not no memory leak in my
version and I push
this yeah these are just anyes this is
fine
oh wait I didn't push this
[ __ ] okay I didn't push this
PR I don't know
man last week was like stupid
and then I got to figure out the Run
command for this
see yeah there we
go uh is this we'll just have to watch
this for a little bit to see if there's
any memory issue for
me
oops
[Music]
literally H there's a screenshot on the
terminal that's funny
yeah that's all separate we don't care
with
that solid okay so this is
done
this got my compute cluster back good
for you ours is
[ __ ] I will never buy another Intel
chip
again
yep I they should honestly like it's sad
that this is just a class action that
like is only going to profit lawyers
because like they like this is they've
done tens of thousands of dollars of
damage I mean they've basically
destroyed most of the value of having a
cluster in the first
place I think I easily easily have a
claim for
20,000 on
them no it's not winning the lottery
with hardware issues it's literally that
they shipped two entire generations of
bad chips I mean you can go check they
talk they they tanked their stock price
by 25% overnight because of this the
same
issue I mean they're literally bricking
my box in ways that shouldn't be
possible I spent most of my day today
testing CPUs in various boxes swapping
CPUs around testing bio [ __ ] it's
insane hi Joseph do you have any advice
for optimizing environments written
mostly in Python and numpy reaching the
point where experimentation is kind of
unfeasible bite the bullet learn just
Port him to see it sounds hard I promise
you it's not hard like you try Jack and
then you hate everything cuz Jack is
just horrible to work with you try n and
then you realize that doesn't work like
it's you just Port stuff to see it's so
much easier and it's like if you think
it's hard you've been lied to let me
show you some code even if you've never
done it C or you haven't done it since
undergrad like watch
this let's see uh snake so this is my
snake implementation it's literally
playable
online you can even see the models
trained online for this thing uh this
runs at several million steps per second
on a single CPU core it's multi-agent
this yellow snake here I can hold shift
I can control it and take over if I want
I can take my hands off and the model
will play so like this works this exact
same Tech this is how I built neural Mo
3 this is how everyone's building stuff
in puffer including people brand new to
RL all right this is the
code 300 lines and
C um here's some logging that you can
just use for any environment it's
destruct there's some
initialization this is how you compute
observations and then here's the end
logic delete a snake spawn a
snake if you read the code there's
nothing surprising here there's nothing
here that a first year computer science
student won't understand just try
this like take a look at this and see
see if you think it's
easy cuz this is like the nicest I swear
this is the nicest way to just have your
environments be fast and never have to
worry about it
it I say this to somebody who wrote
python for 10 years and resisted this
very
yes this did
work me make sure it still
leak yeah Ryan that's not I swapped the
new CPU and I don't know if it's brick
the operating system or somehow manage
to damage other
components but I have multiple boxes
that are disc cursed
h i mean I can show you the specs that
we're getting uh our Dev boxes now cuz
we've got our new ones very dialed
in they're a little pricey but they're
quite
nice I mean not even really all that
pricey cuz just the 90s alone are too
grand out of the box so
works I believe this works I'll let it
run a little
longer oh shoot this was like compiling
or some
nonsense okay we'll have to give this a
little longer
running tiny
policies yeah so uh it seems
like if you were to run experiments on
every core uh for some of the simpler
environments it would be faster than
just running one experiment on the
GPU um but the individual experiments
would be about four or five times
slower um also we want to be able to run
slightly larger policies so it's very
bad to just invest in CPU only infra um
because we're not going to be running
100K policies for f for right we will'll
be running like million parameter
policies or whatnot
um I don't think it's horribly cheaper
either cu the GPU is adding about
2500 to the price of the machine um like
there's still the high-end
CPU uh and the RAM and everything like I
guess you down the power supply bit
but we probably could get some decent
CPU boxes for like 2500 instead of 5,500
yeah um it's a really bad direction to
bet on scalability wise
though 4 to 5x yeah we see um I mean
that's only for the really small
policies as well you get like 100k
training sometimes on CPU
that's because crafter is a god- awful
environment and you're hard bottlenecked
by the
environment do you not have like this
environment um I I guess you're not
running on puffer Li this is why we log
environment time and training time
separately crafter is just like the
worst it's one of the worst pieces of
code um in RL I mean overcooked is worse
but uh yeah it's pretty rough
and make that slow
yeah this is why you just use puffer Li
oh speaking of which uh I'm working on a
very nice present for curriculum
learning
folks a very nice present
indeed how do you feel about um
procedurally generated Mazes of
configurable size and difficulty where
you can run like thousands of them in
parallel and easily swap them in and out
and runs in and renders in
browser and
locally and is only going to be about 5
600 lines of
C oh and also supports doors and keys
locked doors and keys like minig grid as
well
that's the that's the funny thing
well that's the that's the funny thing um it can be more complex than Min you
um it can be more complex than Min you
can just make a giant
maze right it would like yeah it is for
early testing right that's the
point thanks for the answer how does
puffer lib integrate with CMS CMS in
puffer Li so we have our own
implementation here I'll show you have
you tried to puffer liit all I highly
suggest you do though I'm a little
biased so we got a couple demos this
one's old uh C RL P so this is like 300
some odd lines this is your typical po
Atari doesn't have I don't think this
even has lstm in it this is the really
simple one all right so then ours we
have clean puff RL which is based on
clean RL but is many times faster like
30X faster in some cases supports lstms
and has a bunch of additional logging
mostly the logging is going to add some
extra code because if you just scroll
down to the end of our
training um you know we're only 300
lines in but then you know there's some
logging um but this script supports
everything um it's the same interface as
clean RL and the M's just have like a
gym style interface so there's really
nothing that you have to integrate at
all you just drop the environments in
and they're a thousand times faster now
the only thing that we do a little
different here which we don't even need
for all of our environments uh but we
support AC environment simulation in
this file which can give you a 2X speed
up in some cases but most of our
environments are so fast that we don't
even have to do that so yeah definitely
need fast test M been toughing it out
yeah yeah yeah you don't want to do that
because you can't do stuff like autotune
all your hyper prams and just solve
stuff right um so this is I mean this is
for that
right this is for that
PR how can this not
merge up to
date
oh how is this not up to date this is
ridiculous
I'm confused I
pulled I pulled this
I'll show you the code for the grid
thing in a bit as soon as I finish this
it's pretty
nice I mean I mostly rode it on the
plane so it's not fully done yet but
CL
hypers so it's not just about that
though is the thing um this is going to
give us additionally fundamental
understanding of how hyper parameters
are sensitive and where they're
sensitive and why they're sensitive
which is going to inform our ability
to uh modify current algorithms in order
to get around those limitations for
instance I'm pretty sure in my head that
ga's got to go I don't have full
evidence for it but I want to see
exactly how and where to replace
that yeah Additionally you still want
good hyper parameters even on your test
M because it'll make your
experimentation on the test M uh on the
test M go
faster by a
lot like I'm not even done with the neoc
carbs thing yet it's going to be like
the god hyperparameter tuning algorithm
by the time I'm done I just need to
basically stop getting distracted with
stuff and really just like get all my
work in so I can get to that um yeah
vacation was kind of a
mistake I'm literally just like more
more stressed out and busy now because
of all the stuff that's piled up so no
vacations for me for the next couple
tune well but wouldn't you want to know
if it's really sensitive to those uh if
those it's really sensitive to those
parameters that's something you'd want
to know
right yeah I just I think I'm going to
be able to take a day off here and there
when I need it but like
vacation not going to work at
picking well I think it would for
something that struck Ed like this maze
as well um a maze is a very very clear
test of this stuff right in fact it's
almost too clear of a test because the
majority of the literature is kind of
just cheating with counts spaced
exploration what the heck is wrong with
this thing
I literally don't know what happened
here
wait this literally doesn't make any
damn
sense
um clearcut success
fail crafter why are you using crafter
instead of craftex
it's literally 100 times
faster and it has the same base
environment in
it do I just need to have that on puffer
you know on puffer tank so it's
easy I choose the code
base well my experience has been the
vast majority of RL code bases suck
so that may or may not be helping
you ah I see okay you're you're being
very disciplined with it I
see yeah and it doesn't work with puffer
cuz puffer's Ms are really fast and
they're not designed for yeah okay I see
dude that's just like that's no fun
though like you just have absolutely no
fun with that I'm
sure have you considered not torturing
yourself with people's terrible RL code
bases same M transfer the
model yeah no that's true if you're I
forgot your testing syllabus
specifically
the thing is that okay the thing with
Puffer that would be cool is let's say
you're playing with uh you're playing
with new curriculum learning algorithms
right you could play with them in puffer
and then move them to syllabus and you
would be have and it's not just simple
M's right like you can throw them at
neural MMO if you want
yeah we're making all this easier as
well um it's like I've got you know
there's an agenda of things curriculum
learning is on there it's fairly high up
but you know there's there's hard there
are hardware issues there are um
Financial issues to deal with there are
like things like uh my own research
right that I'm doing with this like the
hyperparameter tuning stuff there's end
merging there's a ton of stuff to do
around puffer so I'm getting to things
as quickly as I can um
um I've kind of realized that it's kind
of funny the way I've structured puffer
it really just relies on me getting the
maximum possible number of productive
hours out of myself so uh yeah it I
pretty much just have to get myself like
dialed constantly for this all to work
which I'm mostly figuring
okay try
that this is now
done when's the RLC deadline
PhD yeah they're getting pretty good
though and I'm going to be onboarding
them to more science stuff the main
thing is their boxes just keep
dying heck my box died the other day and
corrupted the operating
system it's
ridiculous I spent like two hours today
on the phone with main gear looking at
boxes did GPU swaps did CPU swaps did
bios test [ __ ]
also like
Nvidia nvidia's been uh you kind of
realize that nvidia's been going a
little
silly look at the size
difference so when you're actually like
you know messing around with the
desktops now it's actually hard to even
get these things slotted incorrectly
since they're just
gigantic H the 40 series is even bigger
and the 50 Series is probably even
bigger we're going to get those though
I've got one 50 box paid for in
pre-ordered already um we're going to
see how that one goes and then we'll
order the other 40 of
them that's the
plan right what other stuff is there do
I actually get to do some of my own
stuff now or I should probably check on
Kung to make sure he's not
pretty fast we are going to be doing uh
slightly bigger models as
well we kind of
uh I ran some experiments for NYU
recently and our 409s were uh twice as
fast as their
00s they're pretty nice but you got to
realize as well like
base price on the boxes is already going
to be what it is
um it's only like double with the like
with the GPU versus like no GPU it
doesn't really make sense to try to save
like a th000 bucks on the GPU and like
cut the speed of the whole machine
substantially uh Robotics and control
stuff we got a Isaac Jim bound to puffer
now I don't know if you've seen this but
we got a we got a and Isaac G binding
that was utter hell cuz that code was so
bad I had to I basically spent all of
last week just going through awful
python code and like fixing stuff um
it's actually was pretty funny the GPU
Drive code ended up being the best they
dropped like they dropped perf in a
bunch of places but that's about
it robotics yeah I know I mean we have
it's like hey if somebody asks if a
client asks for control stuff then
how do we fix the Sim toore Gap Joseph
uh there are a lot of possibilities so
first of all we only really care about
that in specific domains like robotics
right robotics is not the end all be all
of RL um there are bajillion other
things where you really don't need to
where you have like really good accurate
simulators tons and tons of industrial
processes for instance few other things
that clients are doing and so on uh in
robotics there are a few ways
randomization helps a lot and then you
can always just F tune in the real world
right like you have some real Hardware
it's just that you have massively
massively more data in
one of the old posts on that was um you
know learning dexterity open AI that was
a really nice
post the other thing uh I'd like to
mention with the problems that RL has at
the moment is RL hasn't even had the
benefit of billions of dollars of
investment like llms have so like it's
kind of amazing that any anything works
at all and it's actually very reasonable
to get expect stuff to get a lot better
and in fact it's not just going to be
weight around and expect stuff to get a
lot better like we're going to make it
10x easier to get RL up and running on
New problems this year which would
hopefully help with generalization a
little bit but then it'll definitely
help with generalization research
because just RL in general will be a lot
more consistent and uh overall
usable let's check in on Kung here
he's been
doing probably more work than uh he
should
be good luck with extortion isms thank
you very
much I make myself a nice snazzy stream
overl at some point and just get one
let me check next stuff on puffer I
think I actually get to play with my
grid environment a little bit
now I probably should check some email
I mean in the meantime while I'm doing
this
top just going to sync up the grid code
that I've been writing
is this laptop is on its last legs
Razer have their new ones out
[Music]
yet be very expensive Hardware
buying
season just double check jeez those are
horrid
rl's bound to get billions of dollars I
mean it's legitimate but I don't think
it's going to be the only use case right
I don't think that llms with or without
RL solve everything in the way they're
currently being applied um I mean I
guess technically yeah the llm is just
another model so if you have like
general purpose tokenizing and you train
your LMS on everything then you can just
do that um but like we can currently
train on about as much data as all of
gp4 for instance on one
GPU so there's just like a massive
difference in data scale and RL scales
really well with data so that we're
going to have to square that at some
point and I definitely think that
language models are abs like an
absolutely terrible domain for like
figuring out what works in RL and what
doesn't because everything is just so
slow so like we're going to be the ones
here making tons of quick progress
because we are just we can do stuff fast
right so like I think that puffer even
as just like a small in just like a very
small lab really with mostly just you
know open source Stuff Plus me we're
going to be able to be producing results
uh with the speed on the scale of some
of the bigger Labs cuz our stuff is a
thousand times
want to show off my new uh some of the
new stuff I've been working
uh I guess this was like the last couple
edits I made when I was falling asleep
that's fine we'll fix that real
quick here we go so here's your
Maze and you can control this
puffer and we can try to get him to
solve the maze right
and I haven't handled resets correctly
yet but there you go
trying to think how I want to finish
this think
we fix the resets
first we make a couple Standalone
functions for that for different types
of tasks we bind the scon and we call a
day
have to do observation function though
that's pretty
easy right so the other thing was was
caching this
initially maybe I should just initially
have it be the maze task and then add
stuff in
after um
need it's a little tricky now I'm
thinking about it how we're going to do
the resets and
stuff set this one thing before I start
cuz I just remember
there's a a meeting I have set that I
need to set a reminder for
perfect do you believe in the rewards
enough enough
hypothesis I'm I mean it doesn't really
tell you anything on its own right
because if you have like an ideal reward
signal is just imitating an ideal is
imitating a perfect policy
right which is not what we actually
usually mean by that um so basically
most of the stuff that we do in RL is to
get around the fact that we almost never
have a perfect reward signal like this
so in some sense yes but you never have
the perfect signal so you kind of have
to do some extra things
um yeah something like
that I'm trying to think if there's a
way
when you call in in
it intelligence
about optimizing a
fixed well the thing is it depends how
you define the reward function right
because if the function can be
anything right
then it's like okay yeah technically you
could probably cast anything like
that it's like an intentionally poorly
specified
statement right it's not
specified it's a too vague of a
statement to really make any conclusion
about like
this what do you actually have to do to
reset the environment at the moment you
just respawn the
agent and remake the Border that's kind
of
weird oh but your m setting to zero the
yeah okay that's very
weird it's probably yeah it's because of
the uh the various
entities AI
controlled I highly doubt
that I mean in Atari is a very limited
and kind of crappy Benchmark frankly
good you should honestly have to reset
it
with yeah you should just the reset
should just be a mem
copy that's what this should be
these things end up mattering a lot
because otherwise I like I don't want to
spend the next three hours writing a
bunch of useless
code
um I think probably all I have to do
is so reset does have to set Tick an
episode Return To Zero and stuff like
this but for this side I think this just
maybe it's a load level
function where does reward come from and
how yeah
it's I mean we're
already I'm under no you know false
Impressions that the M's that we have
are complex enough either right the
thing is though they are a lot better
than what's out there at at the moment
and uh they're going to help us do you
know a whole new generation of RL
research and then if you think second
order right maybe that's enough to get
people really interested in RL not just
for llms and maybe we make RL stable and
consistent enough for a bunch of
Industries to pick it up so that you
know puffer can get a good chunk of
Revenue off of that and we can even you
know start scaling more research so you
know we're kind of the way I have this
set
up um
it's not because what you see is the end
plan the stuff that you see is stuff I'm
very proud of but it's not the end
plan I mean stuff like this though
really shows you the potential I really
like neural MMOs and environment it's
not even a full MMO though right it has
like an economy system it's got fighting
it's got some leveling but it's not a
full
MMO and a full MMO probably isn't enough
either but it's probably two generations
of progress not just one
now all we got to do is get the
generational progress time down to about
a year and we'll be
good okay I don't like how this is done
either I think it's got to be like load
level or some shenanigans
I don't know why this is
difficult really shouldn't be
I mean I'm not 100%
today but still
yeah I mean hey anybody who wants to
contribute n can do it right we have
people working in all sorts of cool
environment
projects this one here is somewhat
urgent so I'm trying to Fig figure this
out okay maybe I'll just think through
this out loud cuz the thing is I'm just
pretty tired still from uh travel was
traveling all day yesterday um so let me
see if I can this is really basic but um
what I want to do is I want to basically
let you create level specs and then
resetting to that level should just be a
single mem copy which should be very
fast because actually generating the
levels is slow but I can't have this be
in the initialization because I want you
to basically be able to create a bunch
of levels outside of this and then uh
load them
in
so what I need to do is have a
standalone level load
function uh which I already have
for these
mazes and
bunch now the tricky thing here is that
you also have to specify like goal
position and agent position and
such
yeah that's not defined by the
environment which is the
problem okay so yeah that is the issue
is that you also have the agent
position uh everything else is kind of
fine so I guess for now you can just
pass in the agent position directly
when you do load
level but that's does that give you your
spec so we'll just make it'll be a fair
bit simpler than
level and then this will take some
properties
I could also just allocate can I
allocate the memory
contiguously I think technically I can I
could just allocate the memory
continuously and copy the whole
environment
state that would be kind of
cool so set State and get State instead
of doing doing
this I don't know if that's better or
not
howy
welcome I am sleepily trying to fix very
simple environment
well man you know
the the freaking pneumonia makes
everything so much worse because
I mean here look at this
mess where is
on is this from
today why is this not ever sync anything
I don't know why this didn't synchronize
I was going to show but basically it's
like I have to train at 185 heart rate
to get anything done
yeah so the options here right are you
try to come up
with static
representation I mean how's this going
to work even if you just have it like
set the state of the grid and get the
state of the
Grid it's like
you still have to come up with a way to
set the agents
okay so the two options you come up with
a static representation you just set
make set State method
the only things you really need to do
are
set I think it would actually be
faster to just have set and get State
functions and you could probably use
those for other stuff as
well so let's instead of making this be
the whole level let's just
right okay so that spawns the a
agent at X and
Y spawn X
here create
[Music]
maze learning
rate 0.01 is very high for
po they don't need to they like yes the
hyper parameters are going to be
different but that is a very large
difference like 01 is very high for po
level and similarly we should be able to
have the
um we should be able to have the locked
room level right
yeah so this is what we had for locked
room here
and then we'll make a create locked room
level
19 I think this kind of does everything
except yeah this kind of does everything
for you to be
honest but I think that we don't even
need this is just
redundant we'll figure out how to do
this cleaner but this should be good for
now and then all we need to do is fix
the way states are allocated so let's do
that uh I got to go find the trick for
that cuz there's a little trick
State can I do this in a
way let me see
so the problem is that there are
observations actions rewards and DS in
here
okay so the set State thing is not going
to work exactly the way I was hoping it
would
wait yeah that doesn't matter because I
can still allocate them in the same
memory
right yes I
can do you use cloud Compu or have an
Nvidia we use the puffer cluster
which uh we're currently fixing some
issues with but usually contributors get
access to our Hardware as well major
contributors at least where is it it's
on the
blog here it is hover
cluster just a bunch of desktops with
409s we're going to be expanding this
quite substantially in the next few
months we're going to get 40 boxes
and then we will be RL
Powerhouse oh wait I think I totally can
just do
um just do this the way I'm thinking
the only thing I got to be careful about
is struct
packing personal projects no it's it's
for RL having a cluster is better um
because you don't want to be renting
like AWS machines or whatever they're
very poorly speced for
RL so RL can be done relatively cost
efficient I mean if you're doing like
serus RL it's better to do to have your
own
Hardware that said we got completely
screwed by uh all the Intel hardware
issues so our new boxes will be AMD and
we will no longer have those problems
but yeah we've had a lot of hardware
issues figuring out how to do everything
and also puffer is uh a bit more than a
personal project at this point it's a
company it's an open source Community
it's a heck of a lot of
code puffer's gotten quite puffed
up puff P or RL meod to keep a reference
policy
or other Aroma that keep that's not what
that's for it's not catastrophic
forgetting it's um it's collaps via
taking too large of
updates how well has the Titan V held up
it still works
surprisingly I mean I bought that thing
in undergrad it still works so that's
something it was nowhere near as fast as
I was hoping back then so it was not
exactly a great purchase but
it
existed honestly the best purchase I
made was in my undergrad I bought two
1080 TI and stuck them in a a personal
machine and that's what I used to get my
first paper
published ran all my experiments on
those two
cards yeah people were fighting over you
know cluster time on their really
outdated cards and I was like all right
I'm not getting public I'm not getting
any research done on these I'm just
going to make my own like build my own
machine for
I mean we're going to have
um we're going to have some very nice
Hardware soon the first test machine
should hopefully come in in a few weeks
first 5090 test
machine and then uh we'll be ordering
you know an additional 40 machines
I would love to order an additional 41
machine so I have a spare as a gaming
desktop but
uh I it's probably better that I don't
have
that I'm kind of just staring at this
thing thinking about how I want to do it
I don't know what you're on about like
the 40 series was
great I mean the only Hardware
complaints I have lately are just the
Intel chips
the perf was pretty solid for uh thought
the perf was pretty darn solid I mean
maybe the perf per dollar or something
wasn't but it was a pretty substantial
boost over the 309s
just ordered AMD
chip 40 series nor budget for 50 Series
yeah 40 series are good AMD chip is good
we use a 9950 axis for our RL builds
well we I got one box with those and uh
the new ones will have those stupid inal
UPS manag to get 59 90s today I ordered
like last week I ordered a
5090 um I'm not ordering them direct
from Nvidia single cards that's a mess I
am ordering full built
machines from uh you know from uh from
main gear
I should probably just do it already
stop looking at it just do it
so this goes here this goes here Max
size width
height this goes down
90 well it's more so that the uh the
other chips are crazy
overpriced why are you using bandwidth
as why are you using
bandwidth what why is bandwidth your
performance met
it's around 2300 ret no it's 2,000 is
what it was advertised
as it's 2,300 if they put it in a box
for you
Improvement yeah except then there's the
tensor core jump but then the thing is
the tensor the tensor cores are also the
next generation of tensor cores so
they're hard to compare one to
before could do an
allocator I could just
do yeah but you don't compare per watt
because you can't buy a better
card so it's the price of the card goes
up by a few hundred bucks but then the
price of your whole box goes up by that
as well if you're GPU
bound well yeah the 2000 is actually
very reasonable it's the uh the data
center chips that aren't they're
literally they're at like 93% profit
margin there I mean they're practically
the US Mint with their profit margin
is oh
where's the
uh why do these look so [ __ ]
actually they had like a
nice yeah what where do you buy this one
right
here this is the original chip right why
like they got all these uh these ones
with separate fans on
them do they not sell the chip that the
freaking picture
oh yeah AMD is just completely lost at
this
point I mean actually for gaming cards I
think that they just make lower end
gaming cards for the most
part is all they do on that front
40 s's well I didn't even know that they
made those
man I think that they're busy using
their silicon producing facilities for
uh data center chips that are 10x the
weird I don't like it doesn't make sense
to me why they would do
that AMD software
guy well yeah I don't know what they're
doing they're just like they should have
just taken that offer the first time I
don't know what's wrong with
them I think though honestly I think
that they just want to build I think
they just want to make their CPUs and
not risk trying to compete with Nvidia
at all I think that they just think that
they lose so they're not going to bother
they're just going to keep making CPUs
and honestly like they kind of won the
CPU Market um I'd say with the latest
Intel screw up I mean I've used Intel
chips exclusively for 15 years I'm never
buying another Intel
chip like they would have to double
amd's performance now for me to even
look at
them that's how badly they screwed
up m i mean their chips they're making
good money on their chips though like
they um the high-end CPUs right and
workstations they got their thread
rippers they've got pretty nice chips
for
the gpus I mean you saw what Intel
for the gpus I mean you saw what Intel did with their recent chips right like
did with their recent chips right like
nobody in their right mind should be
buying Intel
CPUs um and anytime soon at least uh
desktop grade chips
funny this does have the side effect
that I will not be able to
see um out of memory bound
errors which is moderately
annoying working on similar RL beginner
though using browser use GitHub
repo have lot of
RL yeah it could the tough thing is
you're dealing with
text text as a medium is hard to learn
tabul rasa from scratch
well I'm personally going to Hope us
stays number
one that we get some more chip
fabrication on us
soil as
well and massively increased capacity
they got H 800s I don't know how good
those
are oh
I don't
know I mean their manufacturing should
be pretty damn
good hey man are you working on
gym right on gym this is puffer
lib
um we're currently working on a
procedurally generated maze
environment not sure if you're familiar
with some of the other stuff around here
but our environments are good thousand
times faster than anything you're going
to find in
gy these are all playable online as
well with RL agents in the
browser so we're making a procedurally
generated maze environment for RL though
we're doing so rather slowly I got back
from vacation yesterday I'm still pretty
tired from traveling recent unit tree
robot yeah there's a lot of humanoid
robotic stuff at the
moment Isaac Jem oh yeah yeah yeah Isaac
gem um I did a fair bit on that last
week I've got a guy who's cleaning up
some stuff around that over the next day
or two and then I'll be back on that as
well
the Isaac JY stuff does work um we're
going to get some baselines we're going
to get some stuff trained and we're
going to see how that goes from
there want to finish this grid end I'm
just not sure how I want to
do I don't know how I want to do the
state
irritating ironically if I had actually
made like a grill a grid cell object I
wouldn't have this
problem
um but that's kind of no I'd still have
this
problem how was vacation went to the uh
the galpagos
and it was more of an adventure than a
vacation to be honest I saw a bunch of
very cool stuff but it was not very
restful and uh the main thing I realized
is I really can't be taking vacations
anymore with the amount of stuff going
on with puffer cuz I'm kind of just
watching my inbox piling up with stuff
to do and uh it ends up you know I just
end up being more stressed than when I
left
um so I'm probably not going to be
vacationing really for a couple of years
but that's fine
properly man I hate when I'm just
staring at stuff like this but uh
yeah I actually I was I was making like
great Pace before I left if anything
it's like getting off my schedule that
burns me out right I get good sleep I
get good uh I have a good diet I have
good exercise and all that goes out the
window when I go
away almost done with
plg move conditions in BFS solver so far
so good chimy logic and block pushing
very nice and as soon as you finish that
we will uh we'll start getting you on
some some cool science side efforts most
likely I'm doing a procedurally
generated maze environment as
well this is just a 2d maze
environment it's almost done just have
to figure out how I just have to figure
out this last thing here which is with
loading and saving and stuff
now I really don't like losing my buffer
checks
set you have to run um well technically
it is O ofen but still it's kind of a
chunky algorithm for an noen does a
bunch of checks
I wonder if it is fast enough to do in
the training loop I would doubt it
okay I think I'm going to make save and
load functions instead of messing with
the memory like this and it's just going
to be two meeps instead of
one it's just going to be two meeps
instead of
one
um but then you need a freaking game
State variable don't
I want to pass this
through there's a copy eye there
copy and this whole thing goes onto the
stack though
right but these Maps aren't huge maybe
that's fine we'll try this
ah but this will be a pointer so this I
got to be careful here
so this is a get date
so you actually what you have to do
is this is kind of
weird there's some pointer Shenanigans
here I'm getting very high variance that
that's possible depending on the
environment that's very possible
yeah so the issue here is that this is
it'll copy the pointer but then it'll be
pointing to the same data
state we'll just do you'll just you'll
pass in a
state all right then probably something
was
weird with is M like
this and
then there we go so this is get State
and then set
State we'll uh we'll also give you state
Star
State and we'll do n with height no
Set so n
grid I don't know what's wrong with this
thing it doesn't see the pointer on this
apparently probably because of the dots
above it
go so this is pretty easy get State set
State like
so now let me figure out out how I'm
going to do this first and C I'd say
create maze
level so we'll just do
oops create maze
level
M difficulty is
zero we also need to specify width and
height
here I would
say um yeah we need to specify withd and
height you doing a random gen
for your plg or a known maze uh it is a
growing tree
it's a kind of a nice algorithm because
it lets you interpolate between
recursive backtracking and prims which
kind of gives you a difficulty slider in
addition to
search algorithms just
working
yeah well Ser you don't have to do them
very often right
stuff so let me tell you where you want
to be for RL to make sense
okay for RL to make sense and not be
incredibly
painful this is where you want to
where you can go to some dashboard like
this all right and then you can
just go to group by tags whoops Group
there we go you want to basically just
be in a spot we can Group by
tags you can go to your
plots and just like look at stuff like
this all right and then you want to know
if learning rate is screwy you go to
learning rate and see where it's good
and you can you know you have multiple
the
dashboards so like yeah this one's
good and then you can just go look at
your learning rate and say here this is
the stable region right here right this
this is what you
want buffer length 10o per update is a
ton
look at the default prams we have for
some of our algorithms like this is
where you want to get to and we've
already done most of the work for you in
puffer Leb so it's perfectly fine to
implement your own algorithms and stuff
but uh you know don't expect to use
those
implementations to get real work done
because it takes months and months to
get good
implementations sometimes more than
that in the config files we got all the
DOA needs for different uh envir at
least you can look at sweep
ranges I mean most of them are good some
of them are outdated but most of them
are
good yeah it's all in
puffer all in
puffer actually I have not had restream
up this whole
time go check
oh apparently there's seven people
watching me sleepily code cool hi
everyone let's actually get this done in
that
case so we're going to do with will be
off this is good so now we make the maze
level we'll try this out to see if this
is what we
batch no mini batch size is not buffer
length there is no buffer length in uh
in puffer lib because you don't always
collect the same number of steps from an
environment so batch size is the total
number of steps you're going to collect
from all the different environments that
you're simulating um per update and then
mini batches how many of those samples
you're going to use for each gradient
step
yeah check the puffer implementation
right the puffer implementation will
clear stuff up it's based on clean RL
which is the best implementation out
there it's just uh it's just a little
faster by a little faster I mean like up
to 30 times faster you
know sometimes we do a little perf
optimization
passing oh this is because this needs to
be this needs to be a me copy not a me
set
yeah you know the uh the puffer ocean
has has a few cool environments in it we
could
say well that's not quite right it's
almost right but not quite right
this holy
okay um that's amusing
right that's interesting how it's able
to seg fault it should not be able to
seg
fault so this is now correct but the
puffer's in the wrong spot
spawn agent
was very weird
maybe it's rendering
me why does the puffer go
here why is this where the puffer is
right still don't know where the bug is
thank you very
much Max size
set max size should be set
renderer I don't know if you can
actually put a break point here
looks like you
can okay so we
do y
x uh it got set to 16 that's probably
just something in the C file that I
forgot to
uh hang on great maze level should have
overwritten this
stupid there we go so we'll have to
figure out why it's occasionally seg
faulting but here is a
maze this is where you go to solve the
maze stuff to handle
resets this also requires quite precise
control to not get
stuck and then it dumps you into an
empty
environment
um and then all we have to do is call
get
State all we got to do is close so get
step
Let's see we actually
get errors
here does mem copy not work the way I
think it does what are the args on M
Copy it's probably a good thing that I
don't know this because it means I don't
mem copy stuff around too often
bytes no I'm
correct so why does this not
work Mac not have yeah you
are can you not just stick a Docker
container on it do I need to build you a
CPU Duff a CPU puffer tank cuz you
really are coding on hard mode for no
reason uh Adam
yeah Spencer like f sanitized is the
difference between liking C and hating
C like not having this was the reason
that I hated um my systems courses in
yeah you can do that but uh next time
you get a seg fult remember that you
don't actually have to deal with
thing if you find a compile build that
uh runs it we can add
it so how would I
still because you can render through the
docker
this is a Docker you see the little
puffer symbol puffer symbols the docker
prompt that's why he's there to tell you
that you're in the docker
I should be able to copy here right even
those data on the stack
I
see and this is
because I did not call
reset what did I not call a it
backwards I thought it's two and
from this
wrong two
from
two
wait n
State copy to
dummy uh okay so this needs to be copied
to somewhere
State oh I just need an Alex State fun
okay this is me being
there we
go that's super basic
I really don't need
the allocate as much as I need the
init you state
maybe hold on let me read
that P is doing better it's officially
faster any of the common architectures
that I use should work if you have like
a five layer feed for net is probably
not going to
work I can look at it if you
sass are we getting freaking invaded by
Twitter
Bots is this the freaking creator of the
coin still trying to convince me to do
this with Bots like just
stop all right
stop no then why are you doing this the
original coin was a
scam that wasn't me
that's somebody obviously impersonating
me well obviously I'm an MIT PhD what do
you
expect your coin lost me 10K I posted as
soon as I saw it that uh it wasn't
me yeah this is definitely
Bots lovely
okay whoever you are running this net do
you seriously have nothing better to
do like piss off I'm trying to build
some cool stuff
here yeah it's just 10 Twitter accounts
that happen to join at the same
okay this works but then it doesn't
reset correctly
correctly fix
that I'm
rewards and then episode return should
get reset on its own
right oh this is silly this is just a
placeholder for uh proper log struct
that's
fine let's see if this gets it to reset
correctly
nice okay so that
works so now we have a basic PCG maze
environment and it has to render it full
size like that as well because the mazes
can vary in size just fine
three so 10 EPO is crazy high because
usually it's unstable if somehow you're
keeping it stable for those 10 Epoch
then yes it will increase sample
efficiency
um it should not be approximately equal
the same time though because if you have
your system correctly
tuned then you should be able to get new
samples uh for free instead of getting
old samples so you can train more on new
data instead of on old data which is how
we have it in puffer because the
environments are so fast
it's probably just poorly optimized is
all I mean on any like little simple end
you should be pushing hundreds of
thousands of steps per second
you'll find that things just magically
start working when you have that
this
interesting seems like this only one
locked door I think in this setup right
yeah these are there's only one locked
door this is the
key why can't I run into the key
here it does not let me collect the
key
something yeah you just have your pram
set silly
I look at the way we do stuff on puffer
man you use batch size like a thousand
parallel
enough like the CM are fast enough we
just run them in Cal and we run like
4,000 of them and we
chill let me fix this bug before uh I
got to get dinner soon now let me fix
this
bug good
token I already made the I already
announced that I'm it's not
me I checked there's basically zero
action you can zero legal action you can
take against the uh
uh the host of the
sites AI agents could use a lot of
RL well they are I mean deep seek
right that's what everyone's going nuts
on Twitter no I've already announced I'm
not I'm not in crypto space
theck I'm simply not in that space and
that's just not the way that I want to
fund
like these things are not taken
seriously this does nothing but damage
my reputation for no reason
if the creator of this thing doesn't
stop bothering me soon as well like I
don't know we'll look into what I can do
about that because they are currently
ripping off The Branding of a registered
us company
bug second fault's not from the
code browse you
those yeah the I mean the rappers are a
thing
but like that's
not like that's just like random people
jumping on the AI bus and trying to make
a quick buff and some of them will make
quite a pretty penny but like that's
that's not where the models are going to
be like the models themselves will be
alll like deep seek
go I have highly doubt that the vast
majority of my followers are
um like academics and Industry
practitioners practitioners in RL
they're not people that go around buying
meme
coins I mean it's like the most obvious
it's like the most obvious uh you know
impersonated coin thing
ever like nobody in their right mind is
going to believe that I just woke up one
day and decided to launch a stupid thing
on pump fun or
whatever states have low variance and
nothing unique then I can feel free
I think it was like six people or
whatever the majority of which are
probably the coin
Creator it's just a weird account to
Target it's weird to Target like a 6K
follower account with like dle RL
followers but whatever you know you want
to rip off my brand because you can't
build anything yourself go ahead have
fun keep bothering about it me about it
and then we'll see
but whatever I already made an
announcement it's not
World well yeah but the thing is like
Insomniac um it's going to be so much of
that is going to get put into the base
model that it's going to be it's going
to make like the for Loop over GPT
obsolete so basically all these startups
are doing at the moment is they're
trying to like script stuff on top of
the model to Leap Frog open Ai and
anthropic and all the rest of them by
six months to a year tops right that's
all they're
doing um this is not going to be the way
that things end up actually getting done
now I mean there are a couple like
actually good companies that have kind
of done something good on top of stuff
uh but again it's just a matter of time
before the llm providers just build it
into their own ones like perplexity is
actually pretty darn good I think they
actually have better browsing at the
moment than open Ai and anybody else has
built in but you know it's only a matter
of time and probably unless these things
scale user bases very very fast uh the
most that they're going to probably do
is get a fired at like some good
price and mostly for the
team yeah it's hard to tell because I
literally don't know who like at least a
decent chunk of the accounts that are
like on here and chatting with me are
the Creator on different accounts
because it's like 10 accounts aren't
going to randomly join my stream at the
same
time let me actually check something
yeah okay you didn't join when all the
other ones did so may be
ridiculous it's not Bots as in llm Bots
um it's Bots as
in uh it's boxes in like somebody has
like a multi accountant client or
something most likely that has them just
like logged into a bunch of accounts
either that or they're too dumb to do
that and they just have a bunch of tabs
open I don't
know whatever startup uses LM to wrap up
then open
[Music]
AI or some big typ not necessarily I
mean it's like it's the low skill people
who are literally
yeah I see more Bots um it's literally
the
um it's uh it's literally like most of
the LM startups a lot of them are just
like the low skill people trying to get
into AI because like now you don't have
to understand how models work you can
just write Loops over stuff and to be
fair sometimes you can actually build
useful products in the short term doing
that uh maybe even in the longer term if
you have something very very specific
right um but yeah the majority of them
are going to get
coin I do uh ultra high performance
reinforcement learning it's just
somebody using my name and my company
brand
agent ah it's cuz it's not it doesn't
get set here so we'll uh we'll fix that
up when we refactor this
bit um but for the meantime I should
just be able to do agent is one like
this
point the goal for the year financially
is to scale puffer to uh 1 million AR
which I think is going to be very
possible with what I'm doing
now it takes a few more
clients there we go so um I guess guess
all these other doors are open which
yeah they're all green so it's literally
there is just one locked door in this
environment it's just the mini locked
in and you go like
this added you on YouTube thank
you all the demos are on puffer doai if
you're interested in in them they're uh
they're pretty fun they're like basic
little games some of them not so basic
little games but they all run at like a
million steps per second 10,000 times
real time when we train AI on them so I
mean stuff like this now we have we can
do stuff like train buff on, 1500 years
worth of games on one
GPU and it's all open
source and most of the code is now
contributed by community members so it's
a fun project and it's a great way to
advance this area of science because all
the research these days seems to require
a $100 million
cluster if I were purely motivated by
money I wouldn't be doing this this is
science first money second there will be
money there will be return on this
but this is the primary goal of this
project is to revolutionize
reinforcement
learning and we're well on our
way I mean I are you kidding me of
course I wouldn't be doing this right
there's so many other areas of AI that
are so much easier you kidding me so
much easier to just like
right but yeah I mean we've shipped
puffer is now close to like 30,000 lines
of uh of ship code most of which is SE
environments
fixes it's not fun outside of
puffer took me very many years to figure
out how to make it not horrible and it's
going to get much better from
here do you know if something similar
exists for chatting with
customers I mean you mean like the way
that companies have been replacing their
support with chat
box
um this Tech wouldn't be for that I mean
this Tech is used on top of language
models to improve them um but in the way
that I'm using it now it's not for that
um this is mostly going to be used in
robotics various industrial processes
across a ton of different fields and
various miscellaneous
tasks because this is not this is not RL
on language models this is RL tabularasa
from scratch with much smaller models on
mostly game environments but all other
types of Sims as well that we're
building um you know stuff like this we
got like miniature version of of DOTA
here we've got like some classic arcade
tasks like pong and breakout and
stuff um but the the cool thing about
this is that you can actually do this
research at a reasonable scale uh we can
chew through as much data as all of GPD
4 and about one GPU with some of these
small little models and we can actually
train agents capable of solving game
environments and solving various useful
things like that industrial process yeah
I think that that's going to be one of
the main areas of course it's going to
have to get a little bit more stable and
a little bit more out of the box first
so generally we're starting with tasks
that are a lot more visually
interpretable because there's a lot of
back and forth
debugging but as it gets more stable
we're going to move into that AI into my
simulation game uh if you're thinking
like enemy AI npca I and so on yes this
is the tech that you would use for that
now mind you it's still pretty like
pretty new tech and it still requires a
fair bit of experience to get working on
any new problem uh we're currently
trying to make it substantially easier
right that's what I'm doing with puffer
Li make it easier make it better make it
faster all of that um and it is rapidly
getting better but yes this is the tech
that you would use for
that so gaming will be you know one
potential uh or one pretty large
application area
I've chatted with a few gaming companies
we don't have any contracts in that area
just yet but uh hey puffer still
relatively new and it takes uh it takes
a while to build up a nice client
base okay I think I'm done with this for
to now I think the only thing that I
have to
do the only thing that I have to do on
this now is I have to get the binding to
scyon
um initially it's probably just going to
be a very simple binding and then we're
going to add in curriculum learning type
features so that you can uh reset the
map to a specific maze level depending
on its difficulty based on uh how well
you've been doing on that previously
so that'll be
interesting uh but yeah I'm going to
break for dinner I'll probably be back
on afterwards depending on how long that
takes and see if I can knock out like an
extra hour or so might not depends I got
to look at uh what stuff I got a prep
for tomorrow but probably so I'd like to
finish this um so thanks for tuning in
folks and if you're interested in this
work it's all on
puff. you can check out the GitHub right
here it's all open source and uh if
you're interested in getting involved
with development most of this is led by
community members you don't need RL
experience you just need a good
programming background and uh you'll
pick up the rest pretty quick and if you
want more content than that we have
stuff on the blog but we've also got
some articles on my ex that you can't
find anywhere else think you'll do well
with Riot games got a meeting on the
books with them um full of Bots full Bot
games that play really well yeah for
sure yeah check the site out I mean
we've got a ton of people in the Discord
all building cool stuff so